- Let M be a Turing machine, let w be an arbitrary input string, and let s and t be positive integers. We say that M accepts w in space s if M accepts w after accessing atmost the first s cells on the tape, and M accepts w in time t if M accepts w after at most t transitions.(a) Prove that the following languages are decidable:

  1. {<M, w> : M accepts w in time |w|^2}

  	Run M on w and count the time.

  2. {<M, w> : M accepts w in space |w|^2}

  	There are finite number of configurations of execution in total. i.e. there are only |w|^2 positions of the tape, 2^( |w|^2 ) possible 0/1 encodings of the tape (or say |Sigma|^( |w|^2 ) if valid symbols > 2), and |Q| states of the internal DFA. We can encode all these in a graph and use WFS to detect cycles.

  (b) Prove that the following languages are undecidable:

  1. {<M> : M accepts at least one string w in time |w|^2}

  Suppse AO decides this language. Then we can solve the halting problem as follows:

  ```kotlin
  val Halt: TM2 = { M: TM, w: Input ->
  	val N = { x: Input ->
      	M(w)
          true
      }
      return AO(N)
  }
  ```

  I claim that M halts on w iff. AO(N) == true, i.e. N accepts at least one Input x in |x|^2.

  Suppose M halts on w. Say it takes X time to run M on w. Then there must be an Input x : |x|^2 > X. Thus, N can accept x.

  Suppose M does NOT halt on w. Then for any given Input x, N will NOT halt. Thus, N cannot accept any input in |x|^2 time. Thus, AO(N) == false as desired.

  2. {<M> : M accepts at least one string w in space |w|^2}	

  ​

- Let L0 be an arbitrary language. For any integer i > 0, define the language Li = {<M> : M decides Li-1}. For which integers i > 0 is Li decidable? Obviously the answer depends on the initial language L0; give a complete characterization of all possible cases. Prove your answer is correct. [Hint: This question is a lot easier than it looks!]

